# Machine-Learning_Skin-disease-prediction
Skin disease image Classification
The skin is externally situated, and it is the largest organ in the human body. Due to its location, skin diseases are visible to everyone, hence inflicting not only physical pain but mental problems on carriers. The traditional means of diagnosing skin disease often involve physical observation and conducting biopsies on lesion samples, which are time-consuming and subjective. This has made the need for early detection, faster diagnosis and management of skin diseases critical in healthcare.
The codes provided in this repository are from my master's thesis, which investigated the capacity of certain deep learning and computer vision techniques in accurately predicting skin disease. To achieve this, 3 CNNs, DenseNet, ResNet and Simple CNN, were developed and deployed in a hybrid research methodology that integrated an experimental and quantitative approach. The study utilized a 7-class HAM10000("Human Against Machine with 10000 training images") dataset for training. Data preparation techniques like data standardization, augmentation and hyperparameter tuning were done before feeding the data into the models. After the training process, DenseNet and ResNet (experimental group) generalized well on new data, while Simple CNN (control group) performed poorly. DenseNet outclassed other models in the measured performance metrics and achieved a training accuracy of 92.83% compared to 75.56% and 24.97% by ResNet and Simple CNN models respectively. This study revealed the capacity of the experimental models in predicting skin disease and recommends their consideration for integration into healthcare.
